tata AIG has launched its latest health insurance plan.
The name of the plan is Medicare Select. Medicare Select Plan targets young policy holders.
You can say that if your age is below 45 years, then
you can get good benefits in this plan at a very reasonable price and there
are two-three such features in this plan due to which I am making this review video for you,
so in today's video we We will know what coverage and benefits you will get
under Tata EIG Medicare Select Plan and
will also know about the terms and conditions related to these. Under this plan, you also get coverage of maternity
and the waiting period is also not much but is the pricing reasonable because
many plans charge very high premium for maternity. Till now,
in many of the plans of Tata EIG, you will not find mention
of coverage of modern treatments. Will the company continue this trend within the plan or
has the company tried to do something new this time? I
will tell you the exact pricing of this plan. Along with this, the company is also giving you some very interesting discounts.
We will understand how you can use them
to bring your premium in a reasonable range and the matter will not end here. At the end of the video,
we will also understand the pros and cons of this plan in very clear detail so that there
is complete clarity. If you are able to understand this plan with transparency, then let's
start this video without any delay and review Tata AIG Meicare Select
Plan. First of all, let us understand the eligibility conditions of this plan, that is,
if you want to take this plan, then what terms and conditions will be imposed.
The first point comes about the entry age, if we talk about adults, then the minimum entry
age is 18 years and maximum age is any. There is no capping. There is something new in the age of the dependent child.
The minimum entry age in most of the plans is 91 days and 90 days,
but in this plan, you
can add the dependent child to the policy from zero days i.e. from the first day and the maximum entry age is 25 years. If we talk about
renewal, i.e. for how long can you renew this plan once you have taken the policy,
then there is no limit on this type of age. There is no capping and the tenure i.e. for how much time can you buy a policy at once
, the company has given a maximum option of up to 3 years. You
can buy a long term policy of 2 years and 3 years at the same time. I will tell
you how much discount you get in exchange for the long term policy. I
will tell you that in the discounts section. There are also very flexible options available in the plan type, whether
you want to take an individual policy for yourself alone or for the whole. If you want to take a family policy
with individual sum insured, then you can take this plan and
along with this, the best and pocket friendly way is to take a family floater policy, then
those options are also available. What will be the family size under a family floater policy?
So within this plan, maximum two adults, three children along with this, two
parents and two parents in law can be added to this policy on floater basis
but because This plan is focused on young age, so if you
add your parents and parents-in-law in this policy, then because of that, this premium
can become very expensive, then it will not be the right decision, but the company has definitely given you the choice. There are
quite flexible options for the sum insured as shown in this plan. Minimum
sum insured is a ₹ 5 lakh and maximum you can cover up to ₹ 3 crore. All the options are
currently visible to you on the screen. You can decide the sum insured
as per your need according to your city, family size
. Now we have understood all these conditions but how will be the pricing of the plan. Is
the entire country divided into zones or is there no zone based pricing? So
you will get three zones under Tata AIG Medic Select plan. The entire country
has been divided into three zones according to medical inflation, Zone A, Zone B. And
Zone C, whatever is your residing address i.e. where you are currently living, you
have to buy a policy according to that zone. If your address is not permanent, you
keep changing the zone frequently in connection with work, then
you should take the policy of Zone A, which is the highest zone, so that you do not face any problem during the claim. If your
zone changes rarely and if this zone changes during the policy, then
also about that. Please tell the insurance company that there is no zone based payment, that is, if
you go to another zone and take treatment, there is no payment on it, but still
you should take the policy only after telling your correct zone. Now come after the eligibility conditions.
If we understand the coverage and benefits of Tata IG Medic Premier Plan one by one, then
the first point in the coverage and benefits that we will discuss is the room rent limit, that is, if
any patient or policy holder is admitted in the hospital, then which category of
room will he get, then under this standard plan, you are allowed room up to single private AC.
Above that, if you take any room and single private AC room
is given in your policy, then from the total claim amount. Deduction can be charged proportionately,
that is, a good amount of money can be deducted from the claim, but this room rent
category is not limited to this only, you can also modify it, we
will discuss how in the add ons section. If we talk about pre and post hospitalization
expenses, then 90 days of pre hospitalization, 90 days of post
hospitalization expenses are covered which are related to the approved claim. And
as a reimbursement claim, you will have to take it from the insurance company. Day care
procedures will also be covered by this plan. Whatever
day care procedures are listed on the website of the insurance company, they are covered up to some insured in this plan. Day care
procedures are those minor surgeries, treatments for which
the patient is not admitted for 24 hours. If this treatment is done within a short time, then
you can also claim them. You can take a lot of coverage of organ donor under this policy
and the special thing is that it is very expensive, so you
can claim the expenses of the organ donor from this policy, but the special thing is that there
is an exclusion of some things like you cannot claim the expenses for the screening of the donor,
along with this, you will not be able to claim the pre and post hospitalization expenses of the donor during the organ transplant,
also under the organ donor coverage. The list of remaining
exclusions is currently visible to you on the screen. You
can pause the video and read them carefully because these things
can have a huge impact at the time of claim. Next Coverage is Modern Treatments. Till now, in all the
popular plans of Tata AIG, there was no mention of modern treatments i.e. technological
advanced treatments, but there are 12 modern treatments listed in this plan.
You can also take their coverage. The insurance company
has given a complete list of these in its positive wordings and has said that if these
are a part of the treatment, then you can take their coverage too and the special thing is that no submission
or capping has been mentioned on these
. Due to compulsion, the condition of the patient is such that he cannot be taken to the hospital
or there is no availability of beds in the hospitals. Wherever treatment
is to be done, treatment can also be taken at home if it is recommended by the doctor. This
hospitalization should be for at least three days. Now this is the coverage. You can avail this coverage for any
illness or end of age care, i.e. when you become very old, you
have to take care at home, then even for that time you cannot use this coverage. The detailed
conditions are visible to you on the screen right now. You can also read them once if
you talk about Road Ambulance. There is no capping of the amount . If you want to bring a patient from
any emergency place to the hospital or from a hospital to a better hospital
or to bring him back home from the hospital, then you can use an ambulance.
The condition is that wherever you bring the patient,
there should be a hospital within 50 km radius of it. You can claim it under this policy. Now
comes the very important feature of this plan, that is Restore Infinity Plus, as you can understand
from the name itself. It is said that this is Unlimited Restoration Benefit. The company says that when
your Basic Sum Insured, any Cumulative Bonus or all the remaining amount
gets exhausted in any treatment or falls short in any treatment, then you
can use the Restore Infinity Benefit. The shortfall in amount will be restored up to 100% of the Sum Insured, your
amount will be restored and this will happen unlimited times in a policy year. But the most
important condition on which we should pay attention is
The thing that can create problem in any of our claims is that this benefit
is not applicable for the first claim within the entire year. The next benefit is Daily Cash for Shared Accommodation. Do you know
which room category is Single Private AC Room under the Standard Plan? So if there
is Single Private AC Room or any category above it under your policy and
you take a room on twin sharing basis during the treatment, then you will get per day cash for shared accommodation. Benefit of ₹ 1200
other than treatment expenses will be covered by the company, take care of the hospital.
Your room rent limit should be Single Private AC Room or above.
If you downgrade the room rent limit as per your wish during treatment, then this
benefit will be passed on per day basis
for the number of days the patient is admitted. Similarly,
you can claim Daily Cash Benefit for Multi Sharing Accommodation if your room rent limit
is Single Private AC Room or above and you If you stay during treatment in general board or multi-sharing accommodation,
then ₹ 100 per day treatment expenses can be claimed under this
benefit. Now comes the no claim bonus of this plan i.e. if you have not taken any claim in the whole year,
then how much benefit will you get. For this, the company has given two choices. The first
choice is that you can directly take the cumulative bonus which is 50% of your basic sum
insured and After a maximum of two claim free years, it will be up to 100% of the sum insured.
If any claim comes, it will be reduced back to 50%. What is the second option?
The company says that you do not increase your sum insured, we
will give you some discount in the premium. This discount is 1% of your premium which is negligible, so I think
choosing the cumulative bonus from these two options will be a wise. Decision:
The company has given a discount but it is very nominal. It is better than 1% that we can get 50%
or 100% of the base sum insured extra money. If the coverage is available in our policy
then that will be a good thing to choose. Now friends, we
have understood the basic benefits and coverages. Now I am going to tell you about some add ons which
are a part of this policy, however there are some add ons which are not included in Tata AIG's Flexi Shield. Riders
will be offered with this plan, but what riders are specifically available for this plan?
Apart from the basic standard features, once you understand, the first rider
is the consumables i.e. non-medical items. Have you noticed that there
is no coverage of consumable items within the standard plan, then you can avail this coverage through an add on.
After taking the consumable add on, the list of non-medical items which is one, you
will be able to cover any If these non-medical items are part of the claim, then
you can also take the add on of Next Is Maternity Benefit Maternity, through this you
can cover both normal and C section deliveries. What is the maximum amount,
that is 10% of your sum insured and maximum kept up to ₹ 1 lakh. If your sum
insured is ₹ 5 lakh then ₹ 500 if it is ₹ 75 lakh. ₹75,000 And If Your Sum Insured Is ₹1 Lakh
And Above Maximum ₹1 Lakh Can Be Claimed For Delivery Expenses Including Normal
And C Section Delivery Second Coverage Is New Born Baby Covered
Any Complication Related To New Born Baby Coverage Is That Will Be Covered From Day One
The Condition Is That Your Maternity Claim Should Also Be Accepted Under This Policy And The
sum insured that you will be able to use will be for
newborn baby coverage only from the maternity sum insured.
The third coverage comes under this benefit. Vaccination, which is a newborn baby, its vaccination cost up to one year
can also be covered by this sum insured, but the condition is that your maternity claim
should be accepted under this policy. What is the waiting period? The waiting period is
of two. Years only: Earlier,
you used to get maternity benefit under Medicare Premier Plan, in which the waiting period was four years, which was quite high,
here you can take maternity coverage with a waiting period of 2 years. Do you
find this 2 years waiting period too much, then the next add on can reduce this waiting period even more,
that is reduction of maternity waiting period. Through this add on,
you can reduce this waiting period by one more year. After taking this add on, your
maternity waiting period will be of one year only which is quite less but
only after checking the pricing of these add ons, we will be able to take the decision whether it is worth it or
not. Next add on is Infinite Advantage. You will get many features in the name of Infinite in
ICIC LBA Elevate Plan. But here Infinite Advantage says that
during the entire life time of the policy, you
can stretch a claim up to unlimited sum insured. There
will be no limit on the sum insured on that claim, but it is important to understand some conditions. Whenever you file that claim,
first your basic sum insured, any cumulative bonus, whatever amount
of restoration benefit, after all that is used, this add on. If the number comes,
you will be able to use it, but if a huge claim comes in the future, then only use it.
Various types of features can be used and the special thing is that you
will have to make this choice at the time of taking the policy itself. At Inception you have to decide that weather you want to take this add on
and not early access. There is an add on in the name of early access in which the company says that if you
take a long term policy from three years, then you
will be able to use the sum insured for the next 2 years in the first year itself, as you can see on the screen right now in this figure.
If you have taken a policy for three years together, the sum insured is ₹ 20 lakh, then you
can take the coverage of ₹ lakh in the first year itself. If you have taken this add on, Early Access Next Add On is
Room Category Select. I told which room is within the standard plan,
Single Private AC Room, but you can modify it. Without any capping, you
can also choose any room option and you can also choose Twin Sharing option.
Reduce Your Premium Final Add On of this plan is Annual Aggregate Deductible If you
want to opt for deductible with this plan, then
flexible options ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹1 lakh are available. You can also add this feature to your policy.
Before I
tell you about the pricing discounts and the pros and cons of this plan, let us first understand the waiting period. So the three
waiting periods are: Initial waiting period, specific disease waiting period and pre
-existing disease waiting period, all three are standard, initial waiting period
which is time that is of 30 days, specific disease waiting period which is
24 months and pre-existing disease waiting period. 36 Months But the very
important thing that you have to keep in mind here is that you
must check the list of specific diseases once in the policy wordings, do not go anywhere,
in the description of this video, I have given PDF, you will go there and search the specific
disease, you will get that column, you will see what surgeries are there, what
diseases, what treatments are there, what medical procedures are covered after two years,
apart from this, PED, if any, is already there. If you are taking medicines, have undergone any operation, have any
treatment going on, then definitely declare them to the insurance company only after that
buy the policy so that they can give you coverage under this plan after 36 months. And
the waiting period of maternity, so we know that it is of 24 months but you can also
reduce that to 12 months by paying extra premium. Now friends,
for pricing, I took family. There are two adults and two children, the age of the adults is 39 and 36
years, the son is of 13 years of age and the daughter is of 10 years of age,
so the premium for them will be the address of Tata AIG Medic Select Plan residing in
Delhi Zone A, which will be of
₹ 28,24 annually. In this, only I have added the consumables add on. Since
this is a necessary coverage, non-medical items are also included in this pricing.
Now, these were the prices of the standard plan. Friends, apart from this, there
are some add ons which will be offered to you with this plan among the Tata AIG Flexi Shield Riders,
which are currently visible to you on the screen. You can also see their pricing
and as per your need, you can also add them in your plan. Now
because there is an add on of maternity in this plan, we have added it. It is not mentioned in this pricing
but we will definitely check for how much we will get it. So, this is
the maternity add on and see how high its pricing is. I
expected only one thing that if maternity was also added within this plan within a reasonable premium,
then this plan would have been unbeatable because today there are very few plans which
give you maternity coverage within a very reasonable price, but the maternity feature of this plan
is also quite expensive. You can also check the prices of other addons. As you can see
in these slides, you can estimate your premium on the basis of that, if you
want to add, how much money you will have to pay, you can also see from here. Now as
you have seen in the screenshot of pricing on the screen, there
are two-three types of discounts included in it. Apart from these, there are some discounts also and
what are these discounts. Let us understand the discounts in detail once
so that you do not miss any component of the discount. The first
discount you can avail is long term discount i.e. if you buy a policy for more than one year
together, you will get some discount from the company. How much will you get
if you buy a policy for two years together, you will get a discount, flat discount
of 5% on your premium and if you choose to buy three years of this plan you will get.
7.5% off flat discount on these premiums. Apart from this,
you can also avail professional discount. If you are from salaried class then you should choose that option.
You will get extra 7.5% discount at the time of purchasing the policy.
Apart from this, there is a very high discount that is Young Family Discount. This discount says
that if you buy this plan Medicare Select Plan and are senior from the age of 40 years. If the member
's age is less than 40 years, then you
will get a flat 10% discount on the premium of this policy and the more special thing is that as long as you remain in this policy,
you will continue to get this life long 10% discount. Do you know that similar
discount was available in another plan till the same age group? You are absolutely right, that was
under the Young Star Plan of Star Health Insurance where you
used to get discount at the age of less than 40 years and life long. If you have been getting it in the same manner, then
if you want this discount then buy this plan before the age of 40 years. I told you that
the company is targeting young policy holders and similar discounts
have been given to motivate or encourage them. Next discount is favorable.
Experience discount means that the experience of the insurance company with you
has been favorable. In these terms of claim, you will get 20%. You can get further discount of up to Rs.
How will the company calculate this? If how many claim years have you had in the last 3 years? A claim
year means that if you have filed one or more claims in the entire year, then
it will be considered as a claim year. So, the fewer claim years you have had in the last 3 years, you
will get a discount of up to 20% and as your claim years increase, your
discount will reduce. In the last three years, if there are claims in all three years. If you have a policy then you will not get any
discount, apart from this the slab is visible on the screen,
accordingly you will get discount on the policy premium. However, when you
club these discounts, the maximum limit of discount is capped
at 25%. You cannot avail more than 25% discount by clubbing all within the same policy.
Now friends comes the most important and important part of the video,
what is my opinion about this plan. Or what are the good things and
what are the shortcomings that I saw in it? So first of all let's talk about the pros. The good thing that I saw was that
the plan is very simple and transparent. I did not see any unnecessary features in it
that your five times and 10 times sum will be insured.
You can get the standard plan within the standard coverage reasonable price because this plan also
targets urban and semi-urban areas i.e. even to small towns.
If the insurance company wants to increase its reach, then this is the plan. Apart from this,
if your age is less than 40 years, then you
can take this plan at a discounted price. By mentioning the coverage of modern treatments, it is possible that
even in the old plans, the company may be giving you coverage but it was not mentioned, but
by mentioning it within the documents of this plan, the policy holders are going to get a lot of clarity
and they have the confirmation that they will get this coverage under this plan.
At the time of launching this plan, Tata Another thing that AIG has said is that they
want to expand their network of cashless hospitals even more. Almost 3500 new
hospitals will be added to their panel, which is a very good thing for the policy holders
in terms of cashless claims. Now the one shortcoming that I see in this plan is
regarding the maternity coverage. Now I feel that the plan was so good, it is a simple sober plan,
so the pricing of maternity should also be reasonable if you want to go for maternity. If we look at the pricing
or if we look at the pricing to reduce the waiting period of maternity, then it
is quite high. Suppose, the premium of the entire policy was around Rs. 28,000.
If the coverage of empty maternity is approx. Rs. 20,000 then it becomes quite high. So, the more
the gap increases in the coverage and price of maternity, the less beneficial it
will be for us. So, I think, if the maternity would have been at a slightly more reasonable price, then it would be
quite a lot. If it is included in the plans, then it
could have been included in the good plans for maternity. So friends, we have understood that Tata AIG Micare Select Plan
in absolutely transparent detail with each coverage and benefits and along with
it we also checked the pricing and also got to know what is new in this plan and what are some
shortcomings seen. What is your opinion about this plan. What good
things did you find and what shortcomings did you see, please do let me know by commenting and if there is any
point like this. In which you have doubt, you have not understood or you need more
If you want clarity about it, then immediately mention it in the comments of this video.
I will definitely answer it. If you liked the information given in the video and
understood it, then you can also share the details of this plan with any other person
who needs this information. If you liked the video, then you can like the video. You
can subscribe to the channel so that you can keep getting similar important transparent
unbiased videos in the future. Apart from your base policy, you can also get a
super topup . If you are thinking of taking a plan, then how to choose a best super top up plan,
what things have to be kept in mind, I have told in this video, you
must watch this video, I am Harvinder Singh, now I take permission from you, I will get your permission
in the next video, till then take care, stay fit and stay healthy, Jai Hind.